# GA-SEI-Project-One
## "A Game Named 'Simon'"
##### SEI: 1130, Project One
##### Joachim Cañete

### Welcome

Welcome to **A Game Named 'Simon'**!
This game was based on the classic color-sequence memory game from the late 70s, and this rendition of the game was developed by **Joachim Canete**, a student in General Assembly's Software Engineering Immersive program, Cohort *SEI: 1130*.

### About

**A Game Named 'Simon'** follows similar logic to its namesake, in which the game will require the player to memorize and replicate an ever-growing sequence of randomly selected colors. There is no end-game and no cap to how many levels a player can reach. However, upon failing to replicate the sequence generated by the computer, the game will initiate a **game-over event** and the game will end. You can check out **A Game Named 'Simon'** through Joachim's [GitHug Page]()!

[Start Screen](AGNS_start(smol))

### Interaction

Upon loading up **A Game Named 'Simon'**, the player will click the **_Start_** button to begin playing. The first level begins with a sequence comprised of 1(one) randomly selected button, and every sequential level increments the sequence by 1(one), so the second level will have 2(two) buttons in its sequence, but retain the previous iteration's selection.

> Red
> Red, Blue
> Red, Blue, Green
> Red, Ble, Green, Yellow
> Etc.,

Failing to replicated the sequence generated by the computer, the game will end and text will pop up below the buttons displaying the number of levels completed by the player.

[Game Over](AGNS_gameOver(smol))

In order to begin a new game, the player *must* click the **_Reset_** button, which will clear the game **game-over event**. The player may then click the **_Start_** to initiate a new game.

### Development

Development of **A Game Named 'Simon'** began with the construction of a basic wire frame comprised of 4(four) `button` elements nested within a `table` element. Above and below the `table` element were 2(two) `h1` elements, where the the *above* element hosted the title of the game, and the *below* element hosted the **game-over event**.

[First Wire Frame](SimonWF1(smol))

As development continued, it became apparent that buttons were not the most efficient direction to take in consideration of `CSS` styling for both looks and animations. The `button` elements were replaced with `div` elements to accommodate the aforementioned intent of styling, and later for efficient usage in writing of the game logic.

[Second Wire Frame](SimonWF2(smol))

After the majority of the game logic was written, further styling of the `div` elements nested within the `table` element proved to be too restrictive, and so the `table` element was scrapped in its entirety, with just the `div` elements present for ease of positioning.

### Bugs

There is a particularly difficult bug that lies in the flashing light animations where, as the player progresses through the levels of the game, the animations will "trip" over themselves. Typically, after initiating level 5(five), the player will notice the color-flash animations lag and, in cases where color-flashes are meant to be repeated, the flash animation will hold as opposed to flashing on then off. This is especially exacerbated when the sequence involves 3(three) or more iterations of the same color.

The flashing light animation issue stems from the lines of code responsible for handling the timing of the color flashes themselves. Within `function lightEmUp(lightsArr)` are 2(two) `setTimeout` funcitons, one nested within the other. A solution has yet to be developed in order to mitigate the latency and inevitable lag of the flash animations.